Who were some of the memorable teachers,
advisors, counselors during your student days?
Well, teachers I remember most was Square Root
Jackson. Describe him, and why did he have that
nickname? Well, he could give you the square of any
four-digit number right out of his head. And he and
Dutch Halpern were retained by one by GE and one by
Westinghouse as mathematicians to solve their
problems. They'd send them down here, and
sometimes these guys would solve it on the
envelope and mail it back to them. But when we're
back to Dutch, I mean, Square Root Jackson,
he always rode a bicycle. And when he would start,
he was teaching algebra too. And when he would
start into this and somebody would ask a question,
it was not unusual for him to cover up all the
blackboards with how you did certain things. And
it had nothing to do with algebra. He would come in
and somebody said, well, he'd ask you to hear
something on the radio. And one time one guy said,
no, he said, I kept getting static because I had a
fluorescent lamp and it was giving me static. I
didn't want to turn it out. So Square Root Jackson
goes through the process of how he can stop that. He
came into class one. We always waited to see if they
weren't in class. Ten minutes after the hour, we
walked. And boy, we just about were out of our
seats. And Square Root walked in and said, I didn't
calculate right on the headwind getting here. The
wind was blowing pretty bad. Dutch Halpern was
another one. He had a thick brogue. What did he
teach? He taught algebra.
Somebody asked a question one time. Math was over
on the third floor of the academic building at that
time. And I think everybody in class thought it was
a pretty good question. Dutch walked over there
and picked up the book and he said, you don't need
the book, and threw it out of the window. And they
made him go down and get it. And we had a hard time
understanding Dutch. Now, that Dutch was
Germanic? Yeah, he was a Dutchman. I shouldn't say
German. I mean, he was a Dutchman. It may have been
German, I don't know what we called it in Dutch. My
trig teacher was a gal called...
Galdog, what was his name? Did you say gal? No, a
guy. Did you have any female instructors at A&M?
Yes. I had one. I think it was during a summer
session. I'll come to that when we went to three
sessions. Go ahead. I had it in the name of my tongue
a minute ago. You'll think of them later. Anyway,
he'd come into class and he did the same damn thing
every time he came into class. He would walk into
class, put his stuff down on the little lectern he
had, He'd walk over, regardless of what the
weather was, he'd raise the window, and then he'd
look out, look both ways. And then if it was a
window, he'd close that window or leave it open,
and then he'd come up to the desk, and he would write
something on the blackboard, and he'd say,
Gentlemen, I'm going to tell you exactly what that
means. God, I can't think of his name. But he was
quite a well-known trig prop. Then, Screamin'
Allen Ellison. I took two classes. One of them was
not in his class, I was underneath him, in a class
underneath him, and taking two classes at once,
because the windows were all open, you know.
Then, this was after I came back from the war. I
don't know whether I should give him that or not at
this point, but it was, I just want to tell you that
it was after the war we came back and I took English
210, which was argumentative thinking, I
believe, and John Paul Abbott taught it. He was
such a dapper fellow and we all liked him very much.
And we had a paper to write one time. And this was at a
time when cold strikes were real big on the East
Coast and all that. And so we had to write something
about the cold strikes. And I wrote two
handwritten long pages. And I had my wife and
everybody check it for spelling and punctuation.
And I thought it was letter perfect. I turned it in.
I got that paper back in it. and one mark on it, and I
had a C. So when the class was over, I went up to him
and said, Dr. Abbott, why did you circle this?
There's nothing wrong with the spelling or
anything there, and give me a C. He said, you used
the word striking personnel, and I think it should
have been strikers. And I said, Dr. Abbott, It's my
paper, I wrote it. He said, yeah, but I'm the one
that graced it. And you still got a C? I still got a C
on that paper. And we became very good friends
later on after I came to work here. He was well liked
by everybody. We
had, Paul Mason was one in drawing, and then of
course I got to go to the industrial education
department, Chris Gronemann. Describe him. He
was a wonderful teacher, and started me, because I
quit engineering and went into industrial
education, because I knew, it was my background of
stuff in spirit, and I knew I couldn't make it. I had
hard enough time with algebra, let alone to go with
calculus.
He
was a real good—he kind of convinced me that I ought
to walk, because he talked about his high school
teaching days back in Oklahoma.
And, of course, we had
the machinist
Pop Wagner, and then a guy that taught foundry, and
a guy that taught pattern making. What was it?
Downard. Downard. Pop Downard was in the machine
shop. The guy that taught foundry. Watson?
Watson. Watson. Before the war started, what was a
typical days routine for you on a Monday through
Friday basis? What time did you get up and what did
you do when? Well before the war they instituted
when we moved over into the new new area they
decided we needed to have calisthenics and we
resented the heck out of it because we had to get up
early in the morning All of the cadets would go down
in a quad, and one of the senior officers would lead
us in about 30 minutes to calisthenics. And we
said, we're going to fix them. We're going to all go
to breakfast, and we're just going to eat them out
of house and home. We never made a dent in what they
had. But then we cleaned up our rooms and
everything and got ready to go to class. If we
didn't have a class, well, we probably studied.
What time did you get up? I want to say it was before
six o'clock, because I think breakfast was at
seven, if I remember correctly, because we
marched to all meals in those days, and it was all
served family style, and good food, too. Nobody
lost weight. And we went to class, and we came back,
and we play some kind of a game. We all, of course,
had intramurals. If it was intramural sports, we
entered that. I was not a wrestler, but they
decided I was going to be an entry from B Battery in
wrestling one time. And I'm down at the G Raleigh
where I was working. I was working out, and another
guy was working with me, and Marshall Robnett
comes in, and he's got a new photographer with him.
And they wanted to get a picture of him refereeing
our match. And it was all posed, and it came out in
Life magazine. I have to tell everybody, I'm the
guy on top because you can't see our faces. Now, you
said you marched to every meal. Did you all march to
lunch? Yes. And about how much free time did you
have between the time you got up in the morning and
supper? Well, it would vary. We always had a little
free time, usually between classes, you know,
which might be as much as an hour. And then we'd
usually study or go to the library or go somewhere
and get a Coke or something. And then after supper,
we always would go together if the weather was
decent. And we'd have races amongst ourselves,
the intramurals. And they, I can even remember the
guys flying kites, you know, and pitching horses.
We didn't pitch, we pitched horseshoes, but that
was in PE then, and intramural. We pitched
horseshoes over there. They had a bunch of
horseshoe places. You probably remember that.
But that was really it. We didn't have, and then in
the evening, We might go to the movie, maybe the
campus theater, but Guyon Hall was a lot cheaper,
but first started out at the assembly hall. And it
was very cast-oriented by class members.
Freshmen had certain places to seat, sophomores,
juniors, and seniors.
and wrote letters to her girlfriends. That's what
I did a lot of my time was writing divorce letters,
trying to make arrangements for a way to go over and
see her on the weekend. How often did you call
anybody by telephone long distance in those
pre-war years?
Not very often. I talked to Dolores on a pay phone.
We didn't have telephones in the dorm. I talked to
her, I don't know, maybe once a week. It didn't cost
too much to call. And sometimes Mother would call,
and they'd call me down to the housing office to
take this phone call. And I'd call her collect. Did
you have a personal budget during those years,
those pre-war years, of how much spending money
you had or anything? Well, I
remember we didn't have very much. I got a job and
was working on a campus at 25 cents an hour. We'd get
paid for that. When I became a junior and went under
contract, We got $100 a semester, I think it was, or
maybe it was $25 a month, I'm not sure. But that was
what our spending money was. As
your years went on, events in Europe and Asia began
to be much more important When did you and your
friends start talking about what might be the
result of those events in Europe and Asia? Well, we
didn't discuss the war too much in September of
1941. We knew it was going on, but we didn't talk
much about it. And on December the 7th, I had gone on
Saturday the 6th, had gone to Huntsville with a
couple of fellows that had a car, and they had
arranged dates, and I had a date with a girl. I went
to the, for Sunday, we went to the movie, and when we
came back, they went up, a couple of the women went
up to their room and got some records, because in
the the lounge there in a women's dormitory, they
had a radio and a record player, and we were going to
play records and dance a little bit and then go
home. And they came on the radio then, and Pearl
Harbor had been bombed. And then somehow,
somebody got the announcement that all A&M cadets
report back to the campus immediately. I don't
know how that got on air. Well, boy, we took off. I
got back on the campus and the freshmen were
walking guard duty with brooms and they're
shooting the sophomores as spies and the campus
was just in upheaval on that Sunday night. Monday
morning, when we started to go to class, I had a
portable radio which was about a foot long and you
had to plug it in.
And I thought I'd take that to class and we could
listen to the news. And I walked into class and was
going to plug it in, and the prof said, well, I
haven't got time for that. The war is going to be
over before this semester is over. You're not
going to just forget about that war. You don't know
who that prof was? No, I wish I could remember who he
was, because nobody could have been wronger, of
course. So that's your military science teacher,
which Major Bacher was the one that was teaching
you military science. No, that wasn't him. So you
didn't get to hear President Roosevelt's speech
to the Joint Session of Congress? No, I got a record
of it, but I didn't hear it. What did you and your
friends then begin to think? Well, of course, a lot
of them were wanting to enlist. This is in January
and so on. And we played in the Cotton Bowl that year
and played Fordham. But the people at school, the
military science teachers and all of the
professors and all were urging us not to enlist.
And of course, as soon as you became eligible for a
contract, you had to join the ERC, enlisted
reserve corps. And that was trial and error. There
were an awful lot of them that left A&M, and they
just couldn't wait to get into the war. And, of
course, the class of 43 that graduated, we went
through the trimester, and I'm trying to remember
when that was. Now, your class year is what? You
were class 44. Because I didn't graduate in 44. No,
no, I understand. But we went through the
trimester thing, and I want to say that we started
it in the summer of 43
because I know in the fall I could wear my boots as a
senior. And we had three regular semesters. They
weren't like summer school. And because of the
war, there were a number of changes made in the
Corps. First thing that, excuse me. Did the Corps
become more serious? Yeah, it was always pretty
serious. The seniors ran the outfits, the juniors
were the NCOs, the sophomores were the corporals
if there was enough stripes to go around. But
the first thing that happened when I was a junior,
up until that point, seniors and juniors wore
cuffs on their long trousers. Well, they took the
cuffs away when I became a junior, and I never got to
wear cuffs. And seniors wore a Sam Brown belt and a
long blue coat and boots. Well, I got to be a senior,
and I'd already bought a pair of secondhand boots.
They did away with boots and the sand brown and the
saber. That wasn't in the Army, so they gave us
blouses with a cloth belt on it. But I wore those
boots. When I'd leave the campus, I'd put on white
coveralls. That was all fatigues, was white
coveralls. I'd get out on the road, and I'd get away
from the campus and take them off, and I'd
hitchhike.
You leave A&M when? Well, let's see. The class of 44
and 45 all went in at the same time, and I guess that
must have been
In 43,
I think it was, we had three reviews. 44 took them
around, 45 took them around, 46 took them around.
And when the last group came around, they were just
squads. Did you and your friends ever lie awake at
night talking about where you might be sent, what
it might how your life might be affected? Well, we
all, we talked about what we, you know, what we, of
course, see, my group all had to go to OCS. And we
wondered sometimes how, you know, how that was
going to be. And, yeah, we wondered about where we
were going to go and what the war was going to be. And
Dolores and I talk about it, and she was worried,
too, even though we weren't married at that time.
Well, you went to Mineral Wells when you were
inducted there. Yeah, I went to Mineral Wells. So
you were at Camp Walters, you were inducted. Yeah,
and then came back to A&M. Oh. And how long? The
whole outfit was private. They put you in ASTP. And
how long were you here in the ASTP? Well, we were in
there until the end of that semester. Then we went
to... My group went to San Antonio, Fort Sam
Houston. From there, they broke us down and I wound
up at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, because I was in the
artillery. And I didn't go to OCS. I went to a
battery survey school. Then they sent us back to
A&M, and that's when we was in the ASTP. So now this
was in
the late 43 or the early part of 44, I guess, because
we left here. and went to OCS at Fort Sill,
Oklahoma. Second week I was there, my class and the
class behind me were taking out, and some of us went
to infantry and some went to armor. I started
infantry OCS on D-Day, 1944. How well did A&M
prepare you for duty? Very well, very well. We knew
two things. We knew how to study, and we at least
knew a right foot from a left foot, and we could
march. And if we got in charge of a group, we could
move them from one place to the other. And we knew
about weapons to a degree. And we were used to being
with people and close with people. that a lot of
guys in the Army had a little trouble with. So that,
we got married before I went to, when I went up to
Ford's Hill, didn't I? They got married at the,
Methodist Parsons in College Station, and I got a
three-day pass.
We spent our honeymoon in the LaSalle Hotel, and
then I had to move out of that. She stayed over here
as long as I was here. Moved into Aggieland Inn,
didn't I? Yeah, out of the room. Before I could get
to Fort Sill, you were sent to Fort Benning. While
you were on active duty, do you think officers from
other places had a respect for A&M people? All
except, we call them the ring knockers, the guys
from West Point. They would always, they'd kind of
look down and, oh, any ROTC thing. Oh, I see. But a
lot of the others that came, see, they had ROTC, but
they didn't have the core like we had it. And, uh,
Yeah, they had respect for it. And, of course, we'd
always see an officer when we were in OCS and
before, and then even after we got commissioned to
see if they wore an Aggie ring. You weren't yet a
senior. You didn't have a ring when you left, or did
you? Yes. Oh, you did. Got a ring. Do you remember
any anecdotes about somebody spotting your ring
while you were on active duty? Oh, yes. I can
remember, you know, are you an Aggie? What class
are you? And we'd go through that.
We got a ring and it cost me $50 then. And it was the
first ones that Bob Ford made that had a curved
crown. It had too much gold in it, it wore off. Tell
us about the Aggies. They were standing on the
street corner Oh, well, I'm coming to that. And she
can tell you about an Aggie that picked her up when
she was coming to California to see me. We were at
the Camp Van Dorn. Van Dorn? It was at, what was the
camp at Hattiesburg? Shelby. Shelby at
Hattiesburg. And I was in the 49th Infantry, 149th
Infantry Regiment. And it was muster. So my
roommate, Dick Phillips, and I decided we might
just kind of get together. And so Dolores and I had
gone into town, into town, into downtown
Hattiesburg. and was walking down the street. I
was going to buy some socks, and we were going to go
to the grocery store, and a guy walks up to me and
slaps me on the shoulder, and he said, is that an
Aggie ring? And I said, yes, it is, and he showed me
his ring, and that was Ed Glazner, wasn't it? It was
Emmett McLarty. McLarty. He said, I'd always been
told if you stood on a street corner anywhere in the
world long enough, an Aggie would walk by. My
friend over across the street, he's waiting over
there, and he waited to come over. They said,
where's the muster? I said, as far as I know, my
roommate and I are the only two Aggies on the post.
So I said, we'll just have a dinner at our house, and
we'll have a muster at our house. And this was
before the days where they had candles and some of
that. But they said, well, we've got some stamps
for meat. So we went to the market, and Dolores
bought, what was it, did you buy a roast or steak?
Steaks. Steaks. Now, we've got a room... Dolores
was real smart about this. She always said, you can
live just as cheap in the silk stocking area as you
can in the slums if you're going to rent a room. So
she had gone in the best area of Hattiesburg. I'll
tell you the story about that woman. Well, I went
down the street, and the biggest house, the finest
house I saw rang the doorbell. And this woman comes
to the door. And she, we got to talking, and she
said, you're a southerner, aren't you? And I said,
yes, I am. I'm from Texas. Well, she pulled me
inside. They just treated us like we were one of
theirs. We had a room and a bath, and we had
privileges to the whole house. And to the kitchen,
probably. So Emmett McLarty and Everett Glazner
thought that... So we had the dinner, and... They
thought that was my house. They'd go home and
they'd tell their wives that they had met this rich
Aggie. And they never invited us to their home. We
found out 25 years later that the reason they never
had had the then was because they thought their
houses were so crummy. And I said, oh Lord, we just
had a roof. Back to Muster. Do you remember going to
Muster on campus before you left for the service?
No. So that muster began to mean something to you
when you were away. Yeah, yeah. I just don't
remember a muster on campus. I haven't talked to
many people who do remember pre-World War II
musters. That's right. But it started during the
war. Most of them say, I think maybe muster was
held, but I'm not sure on campus. And yet they held a
muster on Corregidor just before it fell in 1942.
We had one on Okinawa, because I was there on the
21st, and they had them all over. Let's go back just
a second on muster and other. Midnight yell
practice before the war, were there midnight yell
practices? Yes. Where were they described? All
Yale practice started out on the steps of the Y, and
we got to the big, that they moved it over to the
steps on Goodman Hall that faced the Koch
building. The entrance to the Goodman. Mitchell
was a dormitory on the other side. They tore it
down. And we had it there, and the band and all came,
and midnight Yale practice was People came in
uniforms and a bonfire uniform. And as I told you,
if we had a date and there was a dance, the gals came
in their long dresses. And they had some, the yard
leaders all had little stories to tell, but they
were, I mean, way milder than what you hear now.
There was very little vulgarity. Maybe they were
to hell or damn, but that was about it. All right.
Bonfire. Describe pre-World War II bonfires.
Well, the first one I went to was across the street
on the drill field from Law and Puryear.
Southern Pacific and Missouri Pacific Railroad
would always bring in, before Thanksgiving,
they'd bring in extra baggage carts, which were
four-wheeled carts with a tongue on it, because
they knew we were going to come down there and get
them. And so after they began to bring them in, we'd
always leave one so the train could have it. And
that's how we hauled stuff to the bonfire. It was
really almost like a big trash fire. And, of
course, we had anywhere, most I ever remember, I
think, was four outhouses, but maybe two to four
outhouses on there. And you could set it on fire
pretty easy. And, of course, the cavalry lived in
Long Perrier. and they had an old claxton. If they
thought somebody was coming in and they drank that
claxton boy, they'd fall out of there anyway. Now,
Art, so the bonfire basically was trash. Well, it
was just scrub lumber and trees. But it wasn't all
tree trunks. No. And where did the outhouses come
from? wherever we could get them. And of course,
they always, we tried because the university
would have to build them a new one. Most of the time
it was from some, I guess,